Dev docs update: Pay With AI3, Auto SDK, LLM Docs (#93)
autonomys/developer_docs: pages/auto_drive/pay_with_ai3.mdx

---
title: Pay with AI3 — Storage Credits
---

# Pay with AI3

Pay with AI3 lets you purchase **Auto Drive storage credits** directly with native AI3 tokens — no intermediary, no grant form, no approval process. Payments are made on-chain on the **Auto-EVM network** (Chain ID 870) and credits become available within a few blocks of confirmation.

> > **AI3 on Auto EVM required.** Payments use AI3 on the Auto-EVM network, not on the consensus chain. If your AI3 is on the consensus chain, you will need to bridge it to Auto EVM first — see the [Bridging guide](https://docs.autonomys.xyz/bridge).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **AI3 on Auto EVM required.** Payments use AI3 on the Auto-EVM network, not on the consensus chain. If your AI3 is on the consensus chain, you will need to move it to Auto EVM using Cross Domain Messaging (XDM) first — see the [XDM guide](https://docs.autonomys.xyz/xdm).
```

---

## Step 1: Open Purchase Credits

> Sign in to [ai3.storage](https://ai3.storage/) and click **"Buy more credits"** in the bottom-left sidebar of the dashboard.

Reviewer: Worth adding a note here that you will not be able to see the "Buy more credits" button unless you are logged in with Google auth?

Author: Good idea 👍

![PwAI3-1](/developers/PwAI3-1.png)

---

## Step 2: Select a Package

> Choose one of the preset packages or configure a custom amount. The current price per MB is shown at the top of the page and reflects live protocol-level DSN storage costs and a service fee.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choose one of the preset packages or configure a custom amount. The current price per MB is shown at the top of the page and is derived from live protocol-level DSN storage costs.
```

![PwAI3-2](/developers/PwAI3-2.png)

---

## Step 3: Review and Confirm the Order

After selecting a package or entering a custom amount, review the order details — storage amount, AI3 token amount, USD equivalent, and your credits balance before and after purchase. Click **"Confirm Purchase"** to proceed.

> **The price is locked for 10 minutes from this point.** Complete the payment within the window. If the timer expires before the transaction is sent, go back and request a new price quote before purchasing.

![PwAI3-3](/developers/PwAI3-3.png)

---

## Step 4: Connect Your Wallet and Send the Transfer

The next screen shows the transfer details: your connected wallet address, the recipient contract address, and the exact AI3 amount. Connect a compatible EVM wallet and click **"Send Transfer"**.

> Your wallet must hold **AI3 on the Auto-EVM network** (Chain ID 870). If your AI3 is on the consensus chain, bridge it first — see the [Bridging guide](https://docs.autonomys.xyz/bridge). If needed, add Auto EVM to your wallet:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your wallet must hold **AI3 on the Auto-EVM network** (Chain ID 870). If your AI3 is on the consensus chain, XDM it first — see the [Cross Domain Messaging guide](https://docs.autonomys.xyz/xdm). If needed, add Auto EVM to your wallet:
```

```
Network Name: Autonomys EVM
RPC URL:      https://auto-evm.mainnet.autonomys.xyz/ws
Chain ID:     870
Symbol:       AI3
```

After sending, the page will show a confirmation progress bar. Wait for **6 out of 6 block confirmations** before continuing.

![PwAI3-4](/developers/PwAI3-4.png)

---

## Step 5: Payment Complete

Once all 6 confirmations are reached, you will see a payment receipt showing storage added, AI3 paid, transaction hash, and your new purchased credits total. Click **"Continue to Dashboard"**.

> Your credits are immediately available and will be reflected in the sidebar balance. Credits are consumed in **FIFO expiry order** — credits closest to expiration are spent first. Your free monthly allocation is always spent before purchased credits.

Reviewer: Just double checking this is the right way round? I have it in my head that free credits are used after for some reason?

> Your free monthly allocation is always spent before purchased credits.

Author: You're right, the last sentence was incorrect, removed.
